# 1.19.1 FAQ

### What's the deal with 1.19.1?

Players can report other players' chat messages to Mojang, which may result in a temporary or permanent ban from all multiplayer servers.

[See the official help page to read about the reporting interaction and offense categories.](https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/7149823936781-Player-Reporting-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition)

### Why is it bad?

* **Sent to Microsoft instead of server admins** - this system would be amazing if the reports were sent to server admins, it could create a truly consistent and smooth way of reporting players in all servers. But sending the reports to the wrong entity does inheritly mean a different judgement and different outcomes (admins could decide to punish differently than just by a ban) of the reported cases.

* **Report categories that do not match the server rules** - for example, if there is an adult-only server that may discuss things like alcohol freely, but when an underage player stumbles upon it, they can report others for things that are clearly allowed and intended by the server.

* **Lack of context** - Players can select 1-4 messages, to which the system will add up to 7 messages before and 2 after the selected ones - at most 40 messages in total. That is a very partial context as it is missing player builds, signs, books, Discord/forum messages, daily general behavior etc.
   * Also, take the rule "impersonation". How can one be sure a person is who they claim to be with just a few lines of chat? Are they just going to assume it is a lie and ban them? At that point players can not even say who they are because they can get banned either way.

* **Scalability** - Minecraft has a huge playerbase and if lots of players play it, lots can report each other as well. How can Mojang guarantee a _fair action_ to be done on _thousands_ of reports every day? Compare that to a single server that has less players, therefore less reports and less admins needed.

* **Bots and mass reporting** - there is still no wording on how would they _technically_ solve the issue of bots and mass unjust reporting. Okay, blocking multiple reports from a single account is easy but what if X amount of players report an user they don't like for a message that is taken out of context? That could happen to, for example, YouTube celebrities, long-time players of a server or people with rare capes.
  * Imagine being a lawful citizen who joined an anarchy server. You see lots of people who break the Community Guidelines. If you report all of them, who will get banned - you for mass reporting users or them for actually breaking the rules?

* **Vague appeals** - [while there is a way to appeal](#what-if-i-still-got-banned), it is not described when and how many times it will be accepted. The fact that _some_ bans are temporary is not really the solution - an unjust ban is an unjust ban. This issue has already been prevalent in Bedrock Edition.

* **Privacy in general** - would you want to have your chat messages be sent outside the server you play in, even if others did not report _you_?

#### Official posts

- [Blog post](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/addressing-player-chat-reporting-tool)
- [FAQ](https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/7317376541197)

#### Videos

- [Simple explanation](https://youtu.be/rdoFUhd0EkI)
- [Timeline of events](https://youtu.be/kEfyaAq90kg)
- [Technical explanation](https://youtu.be/hYAUEMlugyw?t=43)
- [Clearing others' misconceptions](https://youtu.be/bF_37BrWBSM?t=87)

_Some parts of the videos may be out of date, mainly the report categories and exploits. Problems with ethics and overall technical approach still remain._

### So what does FO do to protect me?

Fabulously Optimized has added a mod called [No Chat Reports](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/no-chat-reports) that unsigns your messages where possible and otherwise just informs you on whether it is safe to chat.

- If you see a full-screen warning on server join and a red ⚠️ near chatbox, you are vulnerable - any chat messages you send may be reported and used against you.
- If you see a yellow ℹ️ near chatbox, you are likely safe even if others report you. However, other players will see red markings near your messages and if they enable the vanilla "Only Show Secure Chat" option, they won't see your chat messages at all.
- If you see a green ✅ near chatbox, you can chat securely. Nobody can report anyone, nobody has red markings on the chat and nobody's chat will get hidden by "Only Show Secure Chat".

The reporting button itself is also disabled for FO users to discourage its use against others.

### Why not stay on 1.19?

Despite the report button not being there, the chat signing already exists in it, so it is not any safer than 1.19.1. If you want to stay on an older version, use the latest version for 1.18.2.

### Why not stay on 1.18.2?

It is safe so you are free to play it for as long as you like. The modpack will still focus on "fixing" the new version(s) rather than continuously updating the old one.

### What if someone really breaks the rules?

Do what you always did.

* If an user is being annoying, hide their messages by clicking the chat icon near the username in Social Interactions or, in some servers, `/ignore (username)`.
* If an user has broken the rules of the server, report it to server administration. This is usually done by `/report`, `/helpop`, server forum or Discord.
* If an user is doing or threatening illegal actions, report it to server admins and local police. Provide them with as much context as possible, including screenshots.

### What if I still got banned?

If you feel like you've been banned unfairly, [see "How to submit a case review" here to appeal](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/community-standards#main-content). Fabulously Optimized does condone any form of ban evasion.

### I am a server owner. How can I protect my users?

See [server setup](server-setup.md).

### I want to give feedback to Mojang.

Great! Use the [official feedback site](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us):
* [Give feedback on the chat reporting](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/7320990094733-Player-Chat-Reporting-Feedback-)
* [The most popular request for reverting chat reporting](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/posts/6977558665997-Mojang-please-for-the-love-of-your-game-don-t-add-a-chat-report-feature-)
* [Overall snapshot category](https://feedback.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/community/topics/360001692331-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshots?sort_by=votes)

### What would make the system fair?

One of the following:

- Sending the reports to server admins instead of Mojang would be the most preferable, as they have the most context to take the appropriate action and players would have a consistent way of reporting on every server.
- Making the whole system opt-in (or out) would also be reasonable as then only the servers that need this help would enable it.
- Implementing the system only on Realms or other Mojang-partnering servers.
- Not implementing the system at all because there are enough moderation tools built already.

### I still think the system is fair.

Feel free to [disable the mod](disabling-mods.md) [No Chat Reports](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/no-chat-reports) on your instance.
